
# Generate entity diagrams with the Metadata Diagram tool

Visual representation of metadata can be very useful, especially when you're trying to describe the relationship between entities in the system. You can use the Metadata Diagram program to generate entity relationship diagrams. You can create a simple diagram that shows a relationship for just one entity or a complex diagram that includes dozens of related entities, including custom and system entities.

## What this sample does

This sample shows two new custom entities created in Microsoft Dataverse. The first entity represents a bank account and the second entity represents a safe deposit box. The following entity diagram is generated by using the Metadata Diagram tool.

:::image type="content" source="bank-account-diagram.png" alt-text="Screenshot of an entity diagram.":::

The diagram shows the relationship between the `new_bankaccount` entity, the `new_safedepositbox` entity, and other entities in the system. The names shown are the logical entity names. If there are multiple relationships between the same two entities, only one line is drawn in the diagram for simplicity.

For more information, see [Use metadata to generate entity diagram](https://learn.microsoft.com/dynamics365/customer-engagement/developer/use-metadata-generate-entity-diagrams).

## Prerequisites

1. Download and install Microsoft Visio.
1. Launch the Visual Studio installer and verify that you have the **Visual Studio Tools for Office** component, or install it if needed.

## How to run this sample

You can specify a list of entity names on the command line when executing the program to generate a diagram containing those entities.

For example, to generate a diagram that shows the relationships for the account and contact entities, use the following command from the `bin\Debug` folder of your project where the exe file is located. The `account` name also serves as the name of the generated Visio file. Running this command prompts you for your Dataverse credentials.

```cmd
GenerateEntityDiagram.exe account contact
```

For more information, see [How do I run Microsoft Dataverse samples?](../README.md).

> [!NOTE]
> The generated entity diagrams can be found in the `bin/Debug` folder for each project.
